THE CURSED CASTLE Once upon a time, long ago and far away, there lived a poor woman who had a single daughter.
They were terribly poor, they lived in a crumbling hut, which was all they had.
One day the old woman fell ill and called to her daughter: My darling daughter, I feel I'm about to die.
I have nothing to leave you, so you should go, find work as a servant and try to live as best you can.'' With that, she closed her eyes and died.
She was buried by the people of the village, because her daughter had no money to pay for the funeral.
All she had was a blanket.
She took it and off she went to find her way in the world.
From time to time she tried begging for food or shelter, but no one gave her anything.
The people said: You're a strong lass, go find some work!'' Well enough, but the girl was a bit slothful, and she much preferred to sit around hungry than to work.
She found shelter in a garden, and stayed there until summer passed.
When autumn came she would hide in sheds, barns and stables.
One fine day she arrived in a big city.
One morning she heard the town-crier shout that the king was offering one of his castles for sale.
The castle would be sold to anyone who would not haggle or bargain, but simply pay the price on the spot.
So the girl thought to herself I should buy that castle.
I will simply lie and tell them that I have the money.'' And she did exactly that.
She went to the king and told him that she would buy the castle.
Well, well'', said the king the castle has as many windows as there are days in the calendar, as many doors as there are weeks in a year, as many rooms as there are months.
And that is the asking price, farthings, no more, no less.
If you pay without bargaining the castle will be yours.'' I will not try to bargain, Your Majesty.
I do not have the money right now because I have many debtors who owe me money.
I will pay you as soon as I get my money back from them, all you have to do is set a deadline for payment.'' All right young lady, let us agree on three-hundred-sixty-five days.'' All right'', she thought to herself that is exactly one year from now, and even if they hang me when that day is come, on my dying day I will be able to tell everyone that I slept in a real palace.'' The king gave her the keys and the girl went to the castle.
She inspected all twelve rooms one by one.
Then she locked the door, and placed one half of her blanket on the floor, using the other half as a cover.
All of a sudden, she heard something that sounded like the meowing of a cat.
Meow - miauw! Poor cat, you must be as lonely as I.'' So she got up and let the cat in.
It was a horribly large, black cat.
Come over here! Come on, lie next to me and purr in my ear, at least I won't be lonely!'' The cat cuddled up to her and purred so sweetly that the girl fell asleep.
When she woke around daybreak she couldn't find the cat anywhere.
She reached for the key, which was under her head where she had put it, the door was locked, the windows were closed.
How could he have left this room? Well anyway, if you've left, you've left, you surely know how.'' When evening came, she lay down once again.
The cat turned up again.
So she said to him: Where have you been? How did you get out?'' But the cat merely meowed, and as he opened his mouth a magnificent diamond rolled to the floor.
The girl picked it up, turned it around in her hand, not quite knowing what it might be.
Finally she put the stone into a pot, and pulled the cat next to her.
The cat started purring and the girl fell asleep.
This went on for about three weeks or so.
Just you wait, I'm going to find out about that cat!'' the girl thought.
And she did exactly that.
When the cat appeared in the evening, she stroked him gently, with loving care.
The cat brought a gem in his mouth, and the girl placed it in the pot.
The cat started purring to lull the girl to sleep, but this time the girl only pretended to fall asleep.
And all of a sudden, when the cat thought that the girl was fast asleep, he sprang up, stomped his foot once on the ground, the door swung open, and in a flash he was gone.
But the girl followed him: she also sprang to her feet and raced after the cat.
The cat ran down a long corridor leading into the castle.
There were doors on both sides, but the cat did not enter any of them.
When he reached the very last room he stomped his foot end entered.
The girl followed him.
When she stepped into the room she saw the opening of a door in the wall.
There were stairs leading downwards.
The cat started descending.
The girl followed him.
And lo and behold, there were magnificent trees on both sides of the stairs! The girl broke little twigs from each of them, but when the twigs broke they started jingling.
The cat heard, and he turned around.
Had she not found cover behind the tree, he would certainly have discovered her.
As he went, the girl heard beautiful music coming from down below.
When the cat reached a certain spot he did a somersault, and when he landed again he turned into a heartbreakingly handsome young prince.
Music was playing and there were people smiling and great merriment everywhere.
The girl watched closely, observing everything carefully, then finally returned to her room.
That evening the cat returned once again, bringing yet another gemstone in his mouth.
He dropped it on the floor in front of the girl.
The girl pretended to know nothing about what she had seen the night before.
You're such a good for nothing cat! Where have you been again? You keep escaping from me!'' But the cat just kept on purring to her.
After awhiIe the girl said: I know where you've been, I know who you are, I've seen everything! Look at this! This is the proof!'' The cat let out a scream that was so loud that all the windows broke.
The cat-skin fell to the floor, and the girl found herself looking at a very handsome young prince.
The cat-turned-prince said: I was cursed to live as a cat until a girl came and discovered where it was I was going.
Now that you have discovered my secret, I will let you have all of these gemstones.
Sell them to a jeweller, and use the money to pay for the castle.'' And so it came to pass.
The girl paid three-hundred-sixty-five farthings for the castle, she and the prince married, they had a magnificent wedding celebration, and they lived happily ever after.
THE END 